---
layout: post
title:  "Work with me!"
date:   2024-04-22 11:00:00 +0100
categories: hiring
---

I am looking for *one PhD student* to work with me on my Ambizione project *"Topological phases and phase transitions in frustrated magnets"*.

### About the position

The project covers a broad range of topics in *strongly-correlated-electron physics*, centring on the physics of *quantum spin liquids*.
As a PhD student, you will study these topics computationally, using *neural quantum states* and/or *tensor networks*, as well as push the limits of these methods.
Within this broad outline, you will have considerable freedom to shape your project according to your interests.
You will also have the opportunity to gain expertise in the theoretical ideas and analytical tools behind the computational techniques, collaboration with condensed-matter experiments, and machine-learning skills that are valuable both inside and outside of academic research.

The project is based at the [University of Z端rich Physics Institute](https://www.physik.uzh.ch/), under the official supervision of [Prof. Titus Neupert](https://www.physik.uzh.ch/en/groups/neupert/).
In addition to our vibrant group, excellent potential collaborators at ETH Z端rich and the Paul Scherrer Institute are within easy reach.
You will also be embedded in national and international collaborations.

The PhD position comes with 4 years of funding, starting from September 2024. The competitive salary follows the University of Z端rich salary scheme for PhD positions; travel funding for conferences etc. will also be available. The University of Z端rich is committed to gender equality and diversity.

### Requirements

#### Essential

* Motivation to solve challenging problems in condensed-matter physics using computational and analytical tools
* Excellent communication and teamwork skills
* Master's degree in condensed-matter physics or a related field (to be completed by 31 August 2024)

#### Desirable

* Research experience in theoretical condensed-matter physics
* Research experience in tensor-network methods (MPS, DMRG, PEPS,...)
* Programming experience (preferably in Python, Julia, and/or C++)
* Prior experience with machine learning

### How to apply

Please send the following to [aszabo@pks.mpg.de](mailto:aszabo@pks.mpg.de) (subject line: "PhD opening"):
* Letter of motivation, with a summary of your research experience and interests (about 1 page)
* CV (with publication list if applicable)
* Transcripts for bachelor's and master's courses

Please also arrange for two confidential letters of recommendation to be sent to [aszabo@pks.mpg.de](mailto:aszabo@pks.mpg.de) (subject line: "PhD reference [candidate's name]"). At least one of these should be written by a research (e.g., master's thesis) supervisor.

To receive full consideration, all application materials should be submitted by **12 May**.
However, applications sent after this date will also be considered until the position is filled.